hey everyone 2022 was
really a year but one thing that I was
shocked by was how much amazing media
with queer themes and characters
actually came out this year so I decided
to do a top eight queer movies or TV
shows of the year and I'm actually going
to be joined today by Nick the co-writer
on all of my videos and since he's
joining in today I wanted to announce
that his novel gentlemen's club a really
fun story about a teenage queer
superhero is going on sale for the whole
month of December for only 299 you can
get an ebook of the novel the critics
have called a wall-to-wall delight and a
queer superhero Thriller every reader
needs and that I personally think is one
of the best queer books to come out in
years and the paperback is also
available so to make a great gift for
the queer nerd in your life Link in the
description but before we get started
don't forget to like And subscribe and
share this video everywhere since
YouTube hates to let my own subscribers
know that new videos are out so without
any further Ado let's take a look at the
best queer media of 2022 in no
particular order
in our own opinion
Sandman Neil gaiman's acclaimed graphic
novel series finally reached the small
screen with a smash realistically while
the comic is popular and highly regarded
I prefer this story as a streaming
series rather than I would have as a
film while the sprawling visuals and
Beauty atmosphere are cinematic its
cerebral elements would have had to get
cut to accommodate a feature length
television especially streaming simply
offers a wider range of what could be
explored including an open exploration
of queerness make no mistake Sandman
from its conception is a story about the
very exploration of Dreams what dreams
mean to people and the ways that dreams
reflect on our reality and especially in
this first Arc what a world without
dreams is want to become gaming creates
mythology ever so tangential to DC's
principal cast of characters centered
around personifications of The Human
Experience a family of siblings called
the endless all of whom are named after
an abstract concept starting with the
letter D Destiny dream desire death
Despair and because gaming focuses on
personal battles in lieu of third act
cookie cutter monster fights or beams of
light shooting into the sky Studio heads
especially given the state of Warner
Brothers these days doesn't have any
reason to understand why it would be a
hit outside of course gaiman's dedicated
yet Niche fanbase though really the
largest red flag to the rotating door of
middle-aged straight men who spend a
fortune renovating Executive offices for
their brief sojourn at the Warner
Brothers headquarters it would be
gaiman's weird insistence of putting so
many damn queer people into his [ __ ]
even gaiman's original 1988 run of
Sandman was pretty gay for the streaming
adaptation he seemed to be adamant that
it would be even care in conjunction
with adding more color to the original
cast of characters in a world which
consistently accuses creators of forcing
diversity and wokeness Gaiman can safely
say he was doing it before it was cool
given that the endless were developed to
function as Superior even to Gods
especially as they are depicted in other
titles dreams peerage are they
themselves beings of cosmic significance
so great that societal Hang-Ups around
sex and gender would be irrelevant the
often antagonistic character of desire
for instance is depicted as either
neither and or both genders desire as it
would apply to everyone would befit any
range of attractions desire doesn't need
to have a gender it only needs to be
tantalizing what helps Sandman stand out
most of all however is gaiman's Comfort
depicting queer characters who are
either villainous despicable or simply
flawed make no mistake they are depicted
alongside and sometimes even interact
with queer characters who are vulnerable
however with corporate lens queerness
notes from Executives often outline that
lgbtq plus characters must be glowing
beacons of morality Paragons of goodness
or tragic figures which
while annoying is a very justifiable and
preferable reaction to generations of
queer-coded or even explicitly queer
villains but that shouldn't mean that we
snap in the opposite direction queer
people can be [ __ ] and we can be
competent and a ruthlessness and Sandman
is comfortable depicting us as this as
well as compassionate and kind
inherently heroic albeit flawed deeply
flawed albeit kind granted it certainly
helps when you have Alan heinberg on
board all do credit of course to Neil
Gaiman but he's never turned down an
opportunity to collaborate with
like-minded creatives with credits such
as Sex In The City the Young Avengers
and the good
Wonder Woman movie he's one of the most
identifiable queer creators in
mainstream media today Gaiman himself is
an award-winning writer for the small
and big screen though he did want to
expand the range Awareness on Sandman
and it means a lot to include queer
voices in their own representation Heart
Stopper heartstopper tells the story of
the absolutely Charming coming-of-age
romance between two boys Nick and
Charlie based on the graphic novels of
the same name by Alice oseman
heartstoppers seemingly came out of
nowhere when it was released this past
summer acting as counter programming to
the typical Doom and Gloom of most queer
focused stories in mainstream media this
wasn't about gay bashing or death it was
just about two boys falling for each
other and one of them coming to terms
with his own bisexuality the show also
featured a wonderfully diverse
Supporting Cast with lesbian couple Tara
and Darcy actually having their own
engaging storyline throughout the show
and trans character L actually getting
to be a trans character whose storyline
doesn't revolve around trauma
transphobia or hate her story is about
learning that people will like her and
even love her for exactly who she is the
Netflix show received almost Universal
Acclaim from critics with many praising
it for being the rare queer-centric show
to depict a more innocent side of being
a queer teenager and actually being
pretty safe for parents to watch with
their kids without having sex pushed to
the Forefront though some people did
take issue with what they called a
sanitized look at queerness most viewers
embrace the show since premiering it's
been renewed for two additional Seasons
which will likely wrap up the story
that's being told in the graphic novels
and season 2 has already completed
shooting but the show hasn't been
without its controversies after the
cancellation of another Netflix show
with two queer lead characters first
kill the streaming service was accused
of choosing a gay-centric show over a
lesbian-centric show since at a glance
first kill had higher viewership numbers
than heartstopper the cancellation grew
out of more nuanced information that
most streamers don't usually make public
though in this case that would be the
completion rate of the series meaning
how many people watched the first
episode and then finished watching every
episode in the season within the first
30 days lots of caveats there viewership
for first kill dropped off drastically
about halfway through the season while
it stayed solid for Heart Stopper which
was also a much cheaper show to produce
but luckily though first kill was
canceled there is a lesbian couple in
heartstopper and some great Sapphic
horror representation in other Netflix
properties like the Fear Street Trilogy
and even stranger things and of course
I'd be remiss not to mention the toxic
fandom that grew up around the show that
demanded kit Connor the actor playing
Nick on the show reveal his sexuality to
the world at the age of 18. there's a 45
minute long video on my Channel with me
talking about that so I won't go into
too much detail about it here but
suffice to say it sucked
don't do that to people Heart Stopper
managed to be a ray of queer sunshine in
a year otherwise filled with hateful
politicians and bigoted internet trolls
and while many people my age and older
felt like they couldn't watch it because
it would just remind them of the teenage
years that they never had it did act as
a spot of Hope for queer youth desperate
for some good news this year and the
good news keeps coming with Yasmin
Finney the actress who played Elle on
the show joining the cast of the new
Doctor Who and Joe Locke Charlie joining
the ever expanding MCU with a yet
unspecified role in The One Division
follow-up Agatha coven of chaos and with
season two of Heart Stopper coming to
Netflix this summer we won't be wanting
for non-depressing queer content for a
while
it's about time
everything everywhere all at once
probably the greatest theater going
experience I've had in a long time
everything everywhere is such a unique
cinematic experience that it continues
to put to shame every iteration of this
new wave of Multiverse movies this movie
of course hinges on the trans-pacific
PowerHouse Michelle yo to offer some
emotional realness to a film that
supports reality itself Evelyn Quan Wang
is an overworked overstressed and
overwhelmed mother wife daughter and
small business owner under a barrage of
tax audits for her strange spending
habits her unquiet mind fills with
regret for each decision that she has
made leading her to this point she does
not see her life but sees a hundred
other lives she could have lived if only
she had made different choices she is so
disillusioned with her own life that she
struggles to connect with anyone in it
her lesbian daughter longs to be taken
seriously into no longer have to live up
to her mother's expectations Evelyn's
husband has grown so distant that he
wants to consider divorce and
netherland's business is in shambles
unlike the range of flashpoints and
Multiverse of madnesses roaming the
hulls of California studios everything
everywhere was not meant to merely be a
Multiverse movie but meant to be a
representation of what it feels to not
only watch your life pass you by but all
the other lives that you could be living
something that struck a chord in this
late stage covered world with so many
people wondering what the heck am I
doing with my life how can you value
your own life when you don't even know
whether this is the life you should or
want to live in how do you keep track of
all these fantasies and decisions you
didn't make and what can you do to enjoy
the opportunities that you have in this
life when you do nothing but wonder
about the opportunities you did not take
and yes the movie is quite queer with
Evelyn's daughter Joy being the force
that is going to consume the Multiverse
the rift between joy and her mother
grows so large that Joyce spirals into
self-destruction figuratively and or
literally Evelyn at first is comfortable
with Joy's queerness in fact at one
point she expresses her belief that
someone convinced joy to be a lesbian
though later in the film Evelyn is
exposed to other versions of herself who
are lesbians and sees other iterations
of herself who are different variations
of queer how can you be uncomfortable
with someone else's queerness when you
realize that in another world you could
have been also queer how can you hate
anyone for anything they are when the
world affords you an infinite range of
opportunities and experiences why should
you disapprove of anyone when you are
who you are because of a collection of
circumstances and choices culminating in
your very personhood everything
everywhere stands out among Multiverse
movies for this reason using multiple
realities to ask and provide guidance on
these big questions but also because it
actually let itself go into the Absurd
when every other movie just uses
alternate realities as an excuse to
break out the all green screen and
underpace some digital effects artists
everything ever at once invites you to
Revel in the absurdity of reality and
maybe that a little bit of absurdity is
good for an overworked overwhelmed soul
Interview with the Vampire Interview
with the Vampire based on the novel of
the same name by the iconic novelist
Anne Rice who passed away this past year
just a few days before my own mom was
phenomenal the vampire Chronicles on
which interview is based are notoriously
queer in and of themselves with a cast
of almost exclusively bisexual
characters with a few gender
non-conforming characters thrown in as
well such as lestat's mother Gabrielle
the pre-production of this show was
scrutinized and criticized from the jump
even from me fans were very worried
about the show changing the race of two
of the main characters Louis and Claudia
and changing the time period of the
story from the Antebellum South to the
early 20th century but in my opinion
they pulled it off and then some by
changing Louis from the owner of a
plantation to the owner of multiple
brothels he's still using people to make
his money and Jacob Anderson best known
for his role of gray worm in Game of
Thrones absolutely knocks it out of the
park playing Louie Louie is kind of a
whiny [ __ ] in the books sorry Louis
stands but he's so much more complex and
engaging in the show and Bailey bass is
Claudia an aged up version compared to
the five-year-old in the book and the 10
year old in the movie is a 14 year old
force of absolute Terror and Charisma
making a star at a Bailey bass almost as
soon as she enters the cast but
post-release the most controversy grew
out of two aspects of the show one just
how gay it was somehow people had
managed to read the vampire Chronicles
and not pick up on all of the vampires
being Queer as hell and they were very
angry that there were men kissing each
other on their TV screens but actual
fans were looking forward to the
queerness and were certainly not
disappointed but the second controversy
actually grew out of the the existing
fan base for the books that being that
the absolute toxic abusive and downright
evil depiction of the series star Lestat
de Leon Cole played here to gaslighting
Perfection by Sam Reed while Lestat was
certainly emotionally abusive and
manipulative in the original book as
well as the film adaptation he never
reached the level of violent toxicity
that he did in the show beating Louis to
within an inch of his vampiric life on
one occasion personally I think this is
brilliant because it's playing with the
unreliable narrator Trope that we know
was employed retroactively to Louis
Story Once Lestat became the main POV
character for the book series in the
books it's well known that Louis made
Lestat out to be a much worse person
than he actually was which is what I
think is happening here especially with
the very powerful influence of a very
powerful vampire no spoilers who happens
to hate lestock because of an
interaction they had a few hundred years
ago it makes perfect sense for Louis to
describe Lestat as being the Devil
Himself and it will be deliciously juicy
when Lestat gets to tell his side of the
story the series currently has a 99 nine
percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes and
was listed as one of the best new shows
of the Year by multiple media Outlets
after the release while the ratings were
soft for its traditional television
release with about a million viewers per
episode its digital releases on AMC plus
each episode coming out one week before
they aired on traditional cable
represented the top rated launch for a
new series ever on the service so we'll
be seeing a lot more of Anne Rice's
creatures of the night in years to come
what we do in the shadows vampires are
gay it's just a thing sorry no it's not
woke garbage it's always been a thing to
the point of Street vampires being
errantly homophobic there I said it sexy
monsters for straight people is Peak
queer appropriation when we had nothing
we invented the sexy monster when all of
Street Media was about Gallant Heroes
rescuing the princess from the monster
gay people who had been decried as
society's monsters turned around and
said well if this is monster [ __ ]
it's actually kind of hot not just gay
people but any kind of unashamed sexual
deviance including asexuals really
because Society was so anal retentive
about purity that when you did have sex
they were gonna be weird about whether
you enjoyed it or not hegemony is so
weird which is why when you get a horny
vampire Convent they end up feeling just
like family this layer of Staten Island
vampires was already very established to
be sexually fluid in their first three
seasons specifically through the
character of Laszlo cravensworth who was
proudly omnisexual from the very first
up episode yet in spite of Disney's
acquisition of fox and their IPs the
show winners and improv heavy cast
decided to couldn't double down on just
how gay it was going to get for this
fourth season and not only were there
more explicit discussions of queerness
and very explicit often coming from that
very signature line delivery and
nandor's confusion over why he needs to
explain that he had boy wives but the
season itself has commentary about
queerness Believe It or Not mark my
words what we do in the shadows will be
discovered as an Untold Brilliance of
social commentary one day using the idea
of immortal vampires to criticize our
societal misconceptions about history
our contemporary Society but also
demonstrating what kind of people we
become when we don't have to really be
worried about eating or dying consider
just how much of our existence revolves
around being alive and how much anxiety
do you experience from knowing that
you're not going to be young forever all
those times you say well maybe next year
and how many hobbies and interests
you're putting off just because you need
to pay for food and shelter what if you
didn't have to worry about either of
those things what if you could just do
all the things you wanted to do with no
social expectations no timeline no need
for resources what reason would you have
to make a bucket list in the first place
just do the thing and these vampires
kind of looked down on people who have
these Hang-Ups they're doing fine
outside the confines arms and they don't
understand why people are so married to
them in a brilliant moment of meta
commentary about queer characters coming
out in media Guillermo a human and
former slave slash servant comes out to
his family trying to get an emotional
moment to celebrate the courage he had
to muster to do this the Empire Queen
Naja doesn't feel inclined to give him
the credit I mean who isn't gay a lot of
people oh okay I'll get the trumpets out
sorry queerness and the often absurd
pursuit of personal desires are her
world she doesn't feel that coming out
needs to be celebrated because she
doesn't understand why anyone in this
environment would ever need to be in the
closet in the first place she and her
vampire Bros are so detached from social
expectations she understands that
sexuality gender fashion and etiquette
really have no impact on who a person
really is coming out is unremarkable
because any kind of social hangup is a
matter of preference and therefore
unremarkable which can be a good good
thing and can also be a bad thing after
centuries of disconnecting from the
world you kind of lose your ability to
exist in it so maybe some tethers of
polite Society are necessary in this
strange little television show about
vampires who are completely separated
from reality there's this running
commentary about privilege the real
privilege isn't wealth but what wealth
or immortality can afford the ability to
do the things that you want and not
worry about the things that you need
Chucky
Chucky is one of my favorite shows of
all time it's at once scary campy funny
and touching season one which came out
last year introduced us to Jake and
Devin a gay teenage horror power couple
fighting to survive against the titular
serial killing doll the first season
ended with a giant bloodbath leaving our
pair of final boys in the Foster system
but after Chucky comes back into their
lives and blows everything up
literally they along with their friend
Lexi are sent to a reform school run by
the Catholic Church where we get
fabulous callbacks to horror icons like
the Exorcist and The Omen throughout as
well as some original religious horror
iconography since Chucky likes to kill
in style Jake and Devin's relationship
is strained though when one of a
seemingly endless parade of Chucky dolls
convinces Jake that he's actually good
after A Clockwork Orange style
deprogramming adding emotional tension
to a story already piling up with dead
bodies and elsewhere in the show we get
to see Camp Queen Jennifer Tilly give
the performance of a lifetime as Tiffany
Valentine Chucky's serial killing ex who
once inhabited the body of a doll but
now inhabits the body of oscar-nominated
actress Jennifer Tilly we even get a
standalone episode with Tilly at the
center of a bloody dinner party murder
mystery clue style and elsewhere in the
show we get Glenn and Glenda the
non-binary children of Chucky and
Tiffany who were once one split
personality inhabiting a doll but are
now two people both played by non-binary
actor Lachlan Watson best known for
playing Theo on the chilling Adventures
of Sabrina their dynamic as basically
the good twin and the evil twin plays
out throughout the season sometimes
wanting to kill their dad sometimes
trying to kill their mom but always
being there for each other an absolutely
Bonkers Christmas episode closes out the
season with more blood thrown around on
screen since a bad night at the house of
blue leaves the second season of the
show managed to introduce multiple new
characters that I really cared about and
further developed Jake and Devin's
relationship past just a cute teenage
crush and into this kind of love that
can only happen once you've been through
a war together Don Mancini who's been
the Evil Genius behind Chucky from the
very beginning except that horrible 2019
remake which I will never forgive brings
so much campy fun and real heart to this
slasher TV series that it's one of the
very few shows I'm willing to watch week
to week I usually only binge watch shows
once they're finished now but Chucky had
me rushing to my TV ever every week to
follow the over-the-top Adventures of
Jake and Devin Glenn and Glenda Tiffany
and Chucky Lexi and Nadine and Nina a
paraplegic woman possessed by Chucky and
held captive by Tiffany who's kind of in
love with her she's played by Fiona Dora
the daughter of Chucky's voice actor
Brad Dourif and she Nails it she even
plays a young version of her father in
flashbacks and it's uncanny this show is
so weird between killer dolls crazy
psychiatrists further developing
characters set up all the way back in
1988 and Devin saw while playing no less
than three different characters it might
be one of the oddest shows on cable
and I love every minute of it it's like
Heart Stopper for slasher fans
in other words
the perfect show for me our flag means
death nobody really expected this quirky
to come about Pirates to be as gay as it
was I mean for us in the know we know
that pirates were pretty gay and the
fact that taekwatiti was attached to the
series both as a contributor and co-lead
this definitely signaled that it would
at least appeal to our queer
sensibilities but it was surprising to
us pleasantly that there was first such
a stark depiction of non-binary identity
and then an actual gay romance subplot
between two secondary characters however
and maybe this is because we're just so
used to being baited even that didn't
prepare us for the decoding of the
romance between Steve Bonnet and
Blackbeard as a matter of fact the
iconic kiss between these incarcerated
Pirates was improvised by taikwa TV reez
Darby was of course in on the subtlety
the script even without the kiss was
designed to bring them into romantic
territory probably smartly the actors
realized that garnishing a true fan base
for the show especially among its queer
viewers would require more than crumbs
even if the provided crumbs had been
substantial the show takes a
defamiliarized approach first of all to
depicting piracy that said our modern
conceptions about piracy are often
flawed hardly the bloodthirsty yet loyal
crew of visually smelly men that you may
be familiar with from the Pirates films
when in fact piracy was born out of an
ideological resistance to British and or
Spanish colonial rule and though the
framing of the show is absurd the fact
of the matter is that this is indeed
based on real people and real events and
probably broaching a lot closer to
reality than you may realize just don't
Wikipedia these people and learn what
actually happened to them in real life
our flag means death however is a
significant stride forward in queer
media in general hardly about queerness
in any specific way nobody really needs
to justify their sexuality or gender in
spite of having discussions about it
this is a good story which is told about
queer people who don't like queer people
won't tune in but people who just want a
good story will keep watching and feed
them to the demand for the upcoming
second season hopefully the outrageous
success of this series will shed a light
on how queer stories can be told to
Executives and other creators alike
American Horror Story
okay spoilers for this one American
Horror Story has been
hit and miss for most of its run while
some Seasons like Asylum are Rock Solid
from start to finish some waiver halfway
through like the admittedly iconic coven
and others fall flat on their face like
double feature I was beginning to wonder
how many ghosts witches serial killers
aliens vampires and even the Devil
Himself the show could keep churning out
so in the latest season simply subtitled
New York City started being advertised
with the most vague commercials of any
season yet which is saying something I
didn't know what to expect and then the
show started airing and we were
introduced to two forces of evil killing
gay men in 1980s New York a serial
killer and a seemingly Supernatural sex
Spirit the usual craziness in Camp of
other Seasons didn't materialize this
time around with the real focus on the
show being the way gay men are ignored
by society and how they gauge their own
worth based on attractiveness and sex
appeal and not much else I was intrigued
by the mystery and motives surrounding
the main serial killer and confused by
the inclusion of the supernatural
elements that seemed all sorts of out of
place it felt like no other season of
the show before it focusing heavily on
realistic characters with an almost
entirely queer cast playing an almost
entirely queer cast of characters I kept
waiting for sex demons from the sewer to
pop up or something when the main serial
killer is taken out with three episodes
left to go in the season
I was worried we'd have another season
on our hands where everything just falls
apart in the Final Act but then it
didn't because the characters who had
been showing odd but not that troubling
ailments throughout the season seeing
the sex Spirit
even being assaulted by him are finally
confronted with the truth
the Real Horror
AIDS had arrived in New York City and
the faceless demon we've been confused
by all season is actually an allegorical
stand-in for the then unknown virus
secretly ravaging the gay community
without being acknowledged without the
Flash and Pizzazz of a serial killer it
was ignored and even ignored by we the
audience of the show it was just a weird
thing on the periphery until it wasn't
until there was no ignoring the Grim
Reaper hovering around our cast of
characters in the final two-part episode
of the Season almost everyone in our
cast dies all but one gay character and
we're shown the horrifying results of
AIDS infections before the days of
protease Inhibitors we see the slow
painful death of our caste far worse
than the relatively quick deaths brought
on by a serial killer we even see
several straight female characters one
had been married to a gay character
before he came out and another for whom
a gay character had been a sperm donor
and they fall victim to the disease as
well showing the audience that no one
was safe from this vicious virus that
the leather-clad Grim Reaper doesn't
care if you're gay or straight in a
surprisingly powerful and Abstract
moment we see the countless gay men
piling into an open grave one after
another this Force takes them away never
to be seen again but within memories
American Horror Story New York City the
11th season of this long-running horror
Anthology was not at all what I was
expecting
and for the first time in the series
left me feeling actually horrified by
the abstract realism in the final
moments of the show it might just be the
final season of the show
and what a way to go out
forcing the audience to witness a killer
that felt very Supernatural in the early
days of the epidemic cold heartless
without motive and with authorities
unable or unwilling
to stop it
so as I said this year had a surprising
amount of really good and sometimes
great queer content and we didn't even
talk about shows like A League of Their
Own which I haven't gotten a chance to
watch yet or foreign series like young
Royals and semantic error or the
animated shows like the return of the
owl house or the ongoing Brilliance of
dead end paranormal park or the overtly
queer and delightfully offensive hell of
a boss
but don't worry
the holidays are coming
and we're getting ready to go to hell
[Music]